Distributed system fundamentals:
Data Durability and Consistency
Replication
Partitioning
Orchestrate

Cardinality’s:
the number of distinct values in a table column relative to the number of rows in the tablecardinality means whether a relationship is one-to-one, many-to-one, or many-to-many. High and Low Database Cardinality. 

Normalization:
First Normal Form – The information is stored in a relational table with each column containing atomic values. There are no repeating groups of columns. Eg Split sales & customer table
Second Normal Form – The table is in first normal form and all the columns depend on the table’s primary key. Eg. removing columns which non    
Third Normal Form – the table is in second normal form and all of its columns are not transitively dependent on the primary key 

Type1: This method overwrites old with new data, and therefore does not track historical data.
Type2: This method tracks historical data by creating multiple records for a given natural key in the dimensional tables with separate surrogate keys and/or different version numbers. Unlimited history is preserved for each insert.
Type3: This method tracks changes using separate columns and preserves limited history. The Type 3 preserves limited history as it is limited to the number of columns designated for storing historical data. The original table structure in Type 1 and Type 2 is the same but Type 3 adds additional columns. In the following example, an additional column has been added to the table to record the supplier's original state - only the previous history is stored.
Type 4: The Type 4 method is usually referred to as using "history tables", where one table keeps the current data, and an additional table is used to keep a record of some or all changes. Both the surrogate keys are referenced in the fact table to enhance query performance.

Source
File directory structure (source, valid, invalid, landing, final)
Logging table
Data trasformation
Data Aggregartion
Validation